aria/contents/docs/libra/internal/scheme/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Libra Database Scheme
description:
---

### Introduction

Libra use `sea-orm` to interact with sqlite database. The data model is defined in [`libra/src/internal/model`](https://github.com/web3infra-foundation/mega/tree/main/libra/src/internal/model), with two tables: `config` and `reference`.

The `config` table is used to store the configuration of the project, which corresponds to the `config` file in git. The `reference` table is used to store the reference of the project, which corresponds to the `HEAD` and `refs/*` files in git.

The relationship between the git file and the sqlite table is as follows:

#### reference:

| Category                                | Description                                                    | Database format                                                                                                                                                      |
| --------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| .git/HEAD                               | Current head pointer (branch or commit hash)                   | Reference(name=`<branch>`; kind=HEAD;commit=null;remote=null) <br /><br /> Reference(name=null; kind=HEAD;commit=`<commit hash>`;remote=null)                        |
| .git/refs/heads/`<branch>`              | Branch name, can’t be “HEAD”                                   | Reference(name=`<branch>`, kind=Branch; commit=`<commit hash>`; remote=null)                                                                                         |
| .git/refs/tags/`<tag> `                 | Similar to branch                                              | Reference(name=`<tag>`, kind=Tag; commit=`<commit hash>`; remote=null)                                                                                               |
| .git/refs/remotes/`<remote>`/`<branch>` | Contains branch heads and HEAD*Remote HEAD can’t be detached.* | Reference(name=`<branch>`, kind=Branch; commit=`<commit hash>`; remote=`<remote>`)<br /><br /> Reference(name=`<branch>`; type=HEAD; commit=null; remote=`<remote>`) |

#### config:

```ini
# config Example
[core]
        filemode = true
        ignorecase = false
[remote "origin"]
        url = url.git
        fetch = +refs/heads……
```

| Category     | Description              | Database format                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------ | ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.gitconfig` | Ini format configuration | Config(configuration=”core”; name=null; key=”filemode”;value=”true” )<br /><br /> Config(configuration=”core”; name=null; key=”ignorecase”;value=”false” ) <br /><br /> Config(configuration=”remote”; name=”origin”; key=”url”;value=”url.git” )<br /><br /> Config(configuration=”remote”; name=”null”; key=”fetch”;value=”+refs……” ) |

### Business Model Design

For decoupling, the `sea-orm` model is not directly used in the code, and the business model is redefined (located in `libra/src/internal`), and common CRUD operations are implemented.

Currently, the `config`, `head` and `reference` models are implemented.

### SQL Statement

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `config` (
    `id` INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    `configuration` TEXT NOT NULL,
    `name` TEXT,
    `key` TEXT NOT NULL,
    `value` TEXT NOT NULL
);
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `reference` (
    `id` INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    -- name can't be ''
    `name` TEXT CHECK (name <> '' OR name IS NULL),
    `kind` TEXT NOT NULL CHECK (kind IN ('Branch', 'Tag', 'Head')),
    `commit` TEXT,
    -- remote can't be ''. If kind is Tag, remote must be NULL.
    `remote` TEXT CHECK (remote <> '' OR remote IS NULL),
    CHECK (
        (kind <> 'Tag' OR (kind = 'Tag' AND remote IS NULL))
    )
);
--  (name, kind, remote) as unique key when remote is not null
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX idx_name_kind_remote ON `reference`(`name`, `kind`, `remote`)
WHERE `remote` IS NOT NULL;

-- (name, kind) as unique key when remote is null
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX idx_name_kind ON `reference`(`name`, `kind`)
WHERE `remote` IS NULL;
```

Commit message:

docs(libra): add reflog documentation

aria/contents/docs/libra/internal/scheme/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Libra Database Scheme
description:
---

### Introduction

Libra use `sea-orm` to interact with sqlite database. The data model is defined in [`libra/src/internal/model`](https://github.com/web3infra-foundation/mega/tree/main/libra/src/internal/model), with two tables: `config` and `reference`.

The `config` table is used to store the configuration of the project, which corresponds to the `config` file in git. The `reference` table is used to store the reference of the project, which corresponds to the `HEAD` and `refs/*` files in git. This `reflog` is used to record the history of changes to references, corresponding to the files in the `.git/logs/` directory in git.

The relationship between the git file and the sqlite table is as follows:

#### reference:

| Category                                | Description                                                    | Database format                                                                                                                                                      |
| --------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| .git/HEAD                               | Current head pointer (branch or commit hash)                   | Reference(name=`<branch>`; kind=HEAD;commit=null;remote=null) <br /><br /> Reference(name=null; kind=HEAD;commit=`<commit hash>`;remote=null)                        |
| .git/refs/heads/`<branch>`              | Branch name, can’t be “HEAD”                                   | Reference(name=`<branch>`, kind=Branch; commit=`<commit hash>`; remote=null)                                                                                         |
| .git/refs/tags/`<tag> `                 | Similar to branch                                              | Reference(name=`<tag>`, kind=Tag; commit=`<commit hash>`; remote=null)                                                                                               |
| .git/refs/remotes/`<remote>`/`<branch>` | Contains branch heads and HEAD*Remote HEAD can’t be detached.* | Reference(name=`<branch>`, kind=Branch; commit=`<commit hash>`; remote=`<remote>`)<br /><br /> Reference(name=`<branch>`; type=HEAD; commit=null; remote=`<remote>`) |

#### config:

```ini
# config Example
[core]
        filemode = true
        ignorecase = false
[remote "origin"]
        url = url.git
        fetch = +refs/heads……
```

| Category     | Description              | Database format                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| ------------ | ------------------------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.gitconfig` | Ini format configuration | Config(configuration=”core”; name=null; key=”filemode”;value=”true” )<br /><br /> Config(configuration=”core”; name=null; key=”ignorecase”;value=”false” ) <br /><br /> Config(configuration=”remote”; name=”origin”; key=”url”;value=”url.git” )<br /><br /> Config(configuration=”remote”; name=”null”; key=”fetch”;value=”+refs……” ) |

#### reflog:

The `reflog` table records every movement of the `HEAD` and branch references. Whenever a reference (like `HEAD` or `refs/heads/main`) is updated, a new record is inserted into this table to describe the change.

| Category                                                        | Description                               | Database format                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| --------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `.git/logs/HEAD`<br/>`.git/logs/refs/heads/<branch>`            | Records the history of reference changes  | Reflog(<br/>  ref_name=`<ref_name>`,<br/>  old_oid=`<previous_hash>`,<br/>  new_oid=`<new_hash>`,<br/>  committer_name=`<name>`,<br/>  committer_email=`<email>`,<br/>  timestamp=`<unix_timestamp>`,<br/>  action=`<action_type>`,<br/>  message=`<description>`<br/>)                                                           |

### Business Model Design

For decoupling, the `sea-orm` model is not directly used in the code, and the business model is redefined (located in `libra/src/internal`), and common CRUD operations are implemented.

Currently, the `config`, `reference` and `reflog` models are implemented.

### SQL Statement

```sql
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `config` (
    `id` INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    `configuration` TEXT NOT NULL,
    `name` TEXT,
    `key` TEXT NOT NULL,
    `value` TEXT NOT NULL
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `reference` (
    `id` INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    -- name can't be ''
    `name` TEXT CHECK (name <> '' OR name IS NULL),
    `kind` TEXT NOT NULL CHECK (kind IN ('Branch', 'Tag', 'Head')),
    `commit` TEXT,
    -- remote can't be ''. If kind is Tag, remote must be NULL.
    `remote` TEXT CHECK (remote <> '' OR remote IS NULL),
    CHECK (
        (kind <> 'Tag' OR (kind = 'Tag' AND remote IS NULL))
    )
);

CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS `reflog` (
    `id`              INTEGER PRIMARY KEY AUTOINCREMENT,
    `ref_name`        TEXT NOT NULL,
    `old_oid`         TEXT NOT NULL,
    `new_oid`         TEXT NOT NULL,
    `committer_name`  TEXT NOT NULL,
    `committer_email` TEXT NOT NULL,
    `timestamp`       INTEGER NOT NULL,
    `action`          TEXT NOT NULL,
    `message`         TEXT NOT NULL
);

--  (name, kind, remote) as unique key when remote is not null
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX idx_name_kind_remote ON `reference`(`name`, `kind`, `remote`)
WHERE `remote` IS NOT NULL;

-- (name, kind) as unique key when remote is null
CREATE UNIQUE INDEX idx_name_kind ON `reference`(`name`, `kind`)
WHERE `remote` IS NULL;

CREATE INDEX idx_ref_name_timestamp ON `reflog`(`ref_name`, `timestamp`);
```
