README.md, before:

# Mega - is an monorepo & monolithic codebase management system

Mega is a monorepo & monolithic codebase management system that supports Git, it is designed to manage large-scale codebases, streamline development, and foster collaboration. Mega is an unofficial open source implementation of Google Piper. 

## What's the Piper?

Google Piper is a massive, centralized version control system that Google uses internally to manage their vast codebase. It is a monorepo, and a monolithic which mean is a single repository that contains all the source code for Google's software. It is designed to manage large-scale codebases, streamline development, and foster collaboration. It is built on top of Google's internal infrastructure and is designed to be highly scalable and efficient. More information on the [Why Google Stores Billions of Lines of Code in a Single Repository](https://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2016/7/204032-why-google-stores-billions-of-lines-of-code-in-a-single-repository/fulltext).

**Google Piper is not open source**

## Mega features

Mega is an unofficial open source implementation of Google Piper. And it has the following features:

### Git compatible

Mega offers the ability to utilize Git with a monorepo. This allows for easy cloning or pulling of any monorepo folder into local filesystem as a Git repository, and seamless pushing of changes back.

### Trunk-based Development

When it comes to managing large codebases in a centralized manner, trunk-based development is the way to go. More trunk-based Development information on the [Trunk-Based Development](https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com/).

### Conventional Commits

Mono will support conventional commits, which are a set of rules for creating clear and concise commit messages.  More information on the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/).

### FUSE File System of Monorepo

Mega has a component named [scorpio](https://github.com/web3infra-foundation/mega/tree/main/scorpio), which is a FUSE file system for monorepo. Scorpio allows users to mount a monorepo folder as a local filesystem. This enables users to work with their codebase as if it were a local filesystem, while still benefiting from the features of a monorepo. 

### Buck2 Integration

Mega intergrates Buck2 as default, which is a build system developed by Meta with Rust. Buck2 allows users to build their codebase in a declarative manner, and provides a number of features that are not available in other build systems. More information on Buck2 is available in the [Buck2 Documentation](https://buck2.build/).

## Contributing

The mega project relies on community contributions and aims to simplify getting started. To develop Mega, clone the repository, then install all dependencies and initialize the database schema, run the test suite and try it out locally. Pick an issue, make changes, and submit a pull request for community review.

### Pre-submission Checks
Before submitting a Pull Request, please ensure your code passes the following checks:

```bash
# Run clippy with all warnings treated as errors (warnings will be treated as errors)
cargo clippy --all-targets --all-features -- -D warnings

# Check code formatting (requires nightly toolchain)
cargo +nightly fmt --all --check
```

Both commands must complete without any warnings. The clippy check treats all warnings as errors, and the formatter check ensures code follows the project style guide. Only PRs that pass these checks will be accepted for merge.


If the formatting check fails, you can automatically fix formatting issues by running:

```bash
cargo +nightly fmt --all
```

### Buck2 Build Requirements

This project builds with Buck2. Please install both Buck2 and cargo-buckal before development:

```bash
# Install buck2: download the latest release tarball from
# https://github.com/facebook/buck2/releases, extract the binary,
# and place it in ~/.cargo/bin (ensure ~/.cargo/bin is on PATH).
# Example (replace <tag> and <platform> with the latest for your OS):
wget https://github.com/facebook/buck2/releases/download/<tag>/buck2-<platform>.tar.gz
tar -xzf buck2-<platform>.tar.gz
mv buck2 ~/.cargo/bin/

# Install cargo-buckal (requires Rust toolchain)
cargo install --git https://github.com/buck2hub/cargo-buckal.git
```

Pull Requests must also pass the Buck2 build:

```bash
cargo buckal build
```

When you update dependencies in Cargo.toml, regenerate Buck metadata and third-party lockfiles:

```bash
cargo buckal migrate
```

More information on contributing to Mega is available in the [Contributing Guide](docs/contributing.md).

## Chat with us

If you interested in Mega, you can make an appointment with us on [Google Calendar](https://calendar.app.google/QuBf2sdmf68wVYWL7) to discuss your ideas, questions or problems, and we will share our vision and roadmap with you.

## License

Mega is licensed under this Licensed:

- MIT LICENSE ( [LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)

Commit message:

feat(orion): call scorpiofs directly (#1969)
* feat(orion): call scorpiofs directly

- Replace scorpio HTTP client with direct scorpiofs Antares mounts\n- Remove scorpio API integration test and reqwest usage in orion\n- Add systemd unit/env example for running orion on GCP VMs\n- Update deploy workflow to provision /etc/scorpio/scorpio.toml when missing\n

Signed-off-by: Luxian <lux1an@qq.com>

* fix(orion): fix DynError conversion

Signed-off-by: Luxian <lux1an@qq.com>

* fix(orion): satisfy clippy io_other_error

Signed-off-by: Luxian <lux1an@qq.com>

* refactor(orion): simplify deployment and config management

- Simplify antares.rs config resolution to fail-fast pattern
  (SCORPIO_CONFIG env → working dir → panic)
- Remove dynamic config generation in favor of version-controlled
  configs in runner-config/
- Create runner-config/ directory with production configs:
  - .env.prod: environment variables
  - scorpio.toml: scorpiofs configuration
  - run.sh: systemd ExecStart script
- Add local development configs (scorpio.toml, .env, run-dev.sh)
- Update CI workflow to deploy configs from runner-config/ via rsync
- Remove inline scorpio.toml generation from CI scripts
- Add comprehensive deployment documentation (docs/deployment.md)
- Delete unused fs.rs and PLAN files

The deployment flow is now:
1. Terraform (deployment repo): VM creation, deps, systemd
2. CI (mega repo): binary + configs rsync deployment

BREAKING CHANGE: Orion now requires scorpio.toml in working directory
or SCORPIO_CONFIG env var. No longer auto-generates config.

Signed-off-by: Luxian <lux1an@qq.com>

* fix ci

Signed-off-by: Luxian <lux1an@qq.com>

* refactor(orion):improve config handling and fix deployment issues

Signed-off-by: Luxian <lux1an@qq.com>

* fix(ci): stop service before deploying orion binary

Signed-off-by: Luxian <lux1an@qq.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Luxian <lux1an@qq.com>

README.md, after:

# Mega - is an monorepo & monolithic codebase management system

Mega is a monorepo & monolithic codebase management system that supports Git, it is designed to manage large-scale codebases, streamline development, and foster collaboration. Mega is an unofficial open source implementation of Google Piper. 

## What's the Piper?

Google Piper is a massive, centralized version control system that Google uses internally to manage their vast codebase. It is a monorepo, and a monolithic which mean is a single repository that contains all the source code for Google's software. It is designed to manage large-scale codebases, streamline development, and foster collaboration. It is built on top of Google's internal infrastructure and is designed to be highly scalable and efficient. More information on the [Why Google Stores Billions of Lines of Code in a Single Repository](https://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2016/7/204032-why-google-stores-billions-of-lines-of-code-in-a-single-repository/fulltext).

**Google Piper is not open source**

## Mega features

Mega is an unofficial open source implementation of Google Piper. And it has the following features:

### Git compatible

Mega offers the ability to utilize Git with a monorepo. This allows for easy cloning or pulling of any monorepo folder into local filesystem as a Git repository, and seamless pushing of changes back.

### Trunk-based Development

When it comes to managing large codebases in a centralized manner, trunk-based development is the way to go. More trunk-based Development information on the [Trunk-Based Development](https://trunkbaseddevelopment.com/).

### Conventional Commits

Mono will support conventional commits, which are a set of rules for creating clear and concise commit messages.  More information on the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/).

### FUSE File System of Monorepo

Mega has a component named Scorpio, which is a FUSE file system for monorepo. Scorpio allows users to mount a monorepo folder as a local filesystem. This enables users to work with their codebase as if it were a local filesystem, while still benefiting from the features of a monorepo.

**Scorpio has been moved to its own repository: [scorpiofs](https://github.com/web3infra-foundation/scorpiofs)** 

### Buck2 Integration

Mega intergrates Buck2 as default, which is a build system developed by Meta with Rust. Buck2 allows users to build their codebase in a declarative manner, and provides a number of features that are not available in other build systems. More information on Buck2 is available in the [Buck2 Documentation](https://buck2.build/).

## Contributing

The mega project relies on community contributions and aims to simplify getting started. To develop Mega, clone the repository, then install all dependencies and initialize the database schema, run the test suite and try it out locally. Pick an issue, make changes, and submit a pull request for community review.

### Pre-submission Checks
Before submitting a Pull Request, please ensure your code passes the following checks:

```bash
# Run clippy with all warnings treated as errors (warnings will be treated as errors)
cargo clippy --all-targets --all-features -- -D warnings

# Check code formatting (requires nightly toolchain)
cargo +nightly fmt --all --check
```

Both commands must complete without any warnings. The clippy check treats all warnings as errors, and the formatter check ensures code follows the project style guide. Only PRs that pass these checks will be accepted for merge.


If the formatting check fails, you can automatically fix formatting issues by running:

```bash
cargo +nightly fmt --all
```

### Buck2 Build Requirements

This project builds with Buck2. Please install both Buck2 and cargo-buckal before development:

```bash
# Install buck2: download the latest release tarball from
# https://github.com/facebook/buck2/releases, extract the binary,
# and place it in ~/.cargo/bin (ensure ~/.cargo/bin is on PATH).
# Example (replace <tag> and <platform> with the latest for your OS):
wget https://github.com/facebook/buck2/releases/download/<tag>/buck2-<platform>.tar.gz
tar -xzf buck2-<platform>.tar.gz
mv buck2 ~/.cargo/bin/

# Install cargo-buckal (requires Rust toolchain)
cargo install --git https://github.com/buck2hub/cargo-buckal.git
```

Pull Requests must also pass the Buck2 build:

```bash
cargo buckal build
```

When you update dependencies in Cargo.toml, regenerate Buck metadata and third-party lockfiles:

```bash
cargo buckal migrate
```

More information on contributing to Mega is available in the [Contributing Guide](docs/contributing.md).

## Chat with us

If you interested in Mega, you can make an appointment with us on [Google Calendar](https://calendar.app.google/QuBf2sdmf68wVYWL7) to discuss your ideas, questions or problems, and we will share our vision and roadmap with you.

## License

Mega is licensed under this Licensed:

- MIT LICENSE ( [LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) or https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
- Apache License, Version 2.0 ([LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) or https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
