aria/contents/docs/libra/command/config/index.mdx, before:

---
title: The [config] Command
description: Manage the configuration of the libra repository
---

### Usage

`libra config` [OPTIONS] `<key>` `<value_pattern>`

### Description

Manage configuration entries by adding, retrieving, listing, or deleting them in the repository. Supports pattern matching on key and value fields for flexible querying and deletion. Only one mode (`--add`, `--get`, `--get-all`, `--unset`, `--unset-all`, or `--list`) can be used at a time.

### Arguments

- `<key>` – The key string of the configuration entry, should be like `configuration.[name].key`.  
  _Required unless `--list` is used._

- `<value_pattern>` – The value or the pattern to match against configuration values.  
  _Required unless `--list` is used._

### Options

- `--add`  
  Add a configuration entry to the database.  
  _Requires `<value_pattern>`._

- `--get`  
  Get a single configuration entry matching the key and value pattern.

- `--get-all`  
  Get all configuration entries matching the key and value pattern.

- `--unset`  
  Remove a single configuration entry matching the key and value pattern.

- `--unset-all`  
  Remove all configuration entries matching the key and value pattern.

- `-l`, `--list`  
  List all configuration entries from the database.  
  _Does not require `key` or `value_pattern`._

- `-d`, `--default <value>`  
  Return the given default value if no matching key is found.  
  _Only valid with `--get` `--get-all`._

- `-h`, `--help`  
  Print help information.

<Note type="note" title="Note">
  Only one of `--add`, `--get`, `--get-all`, `--unset`, `--unset-all`, or `--list` can be used at a time. Use `--default` only with `--get` and `--get-all`.
</Note>

Commit message:

feat(libra): 为libra config命令添加--name-only参数
Signed-off-by: InChh <2319397152@qq.com>

aria/contents/docs/libra/command/config/index.mdx, after:

---
title: The [config] Command
description: Manage the configuration of the libra repository
---

### Usage

`libra config` [OPTIONS] `<key>` `<value_pattern>`

### Description

Manage configuration entries by adding, retrieving, listing, or deleting them in the repository. Supports pattern matching on key and value fields for flexible querying and deletion. Only one mode (`--add`, `--get`, `--get-all`, `--unset`, `--unset-all`, or `--list`) can be used at a time.

### Arguments

- `<key>` – The key string of the configuration entry, should be like `configuration.[name].key`.  
  _Required unless `--list` is used._

- `<value_pattern>` – The value or the pattern to match against configuration values.  
  _Required unless `--list` is used._

### Options

- `--add`  
  Add a configuration entry to the database.  
  _Requires `<value_pattern>`._

- `--get`  
  Get a single configuration entry matching the key and value pattern.

- `--get-all`  
  Get all configuration entries matching the key and value pattern.

- `--unset`  
  Remove a single configuration entry matching the key and value pattern.

- `--unset-all`  
  Remove all configuration entries matching the key and value pattern.

- `-l`, `--list`  
  List all configuration entries from the database.  
  _Does not require `key` or `value_pattern`._

- `--name-only`
  Output only the names of config variables for --list
  _Only valid with `--list`._

- `-d`, `--default <value>`  
  Return the given default value if no matching key is found.  
  _Only valid with `--get` `--get-all`._

- `-h`, `--help`  
  Print help information.

<Note type="note" title="Note">
  Only one of `--add`, `--get`, `--get-all`, `--unset`, `--unset-all`, or `--list` can be used at a time. Use `--default` only with `--get` and `--get-all`. 
  Use `--name-only` only with `--list`.
</Note>
