aria/contents/docs/libra/command/status/index.mdx, before:

---
title: The [status] Command
description: Show the working tree status
---

### Usage

libra status [--porcelain]

### Description

Displays paths that have differences between the index file and the current HEAD commit, paths that have differences between the working
tree and the index file, and paths in the working tree that are not tracked by Libra.

<Note type="note" title="Note">
    The `status` command now supports the `--porcelain` option for machine-readable output format.

    See https://git-scm.com/docs/git-status for more information.
</Note>

### Options

- `--porcelain`
    Provide output in a stable, easy-to-parse format for scripts.
    Each line of output contains two status columns followed by the file path:
    First column = index status (changes staged for commit)
    Second column = working tree status (changes not staged)
    Status codes:
    A = Added
    M = Modified
    D = Deleted
    ?? = Untracked
    When --porcelain is not provided, the default human-readable output format is used.

Commit message:

feat: enhance status command documentation with -s/--short option details
Updated the documentation for the `status` command to include the new `-s/--short` option, which provides Git-compatible short format output. Clarified the output format and status codes for better user understanding.

aria/contents/docs/libra/command/status/index.mdx, after:

---
title: The [status] Command
description: Show the working tree status
---

### Usage

libra status [--porcelain] [-s|--short]

### Description

Displays paths that have differences between the index file and the current HEAD commit, paths that have differences between the working
tree and the index file, and paths in the working tree that are not tracked by Libra.

<Note type="note" title="Note">
    The `status` command now supports the `--porcelain` option for machine-readable output format, and the `-s/--short` option for Git-compatible short format output.

    See https://git-scm.com/docs/git-status for more information.
</Note>

### Options

- `--porcelain`
    Provide output in a stable, easy-to-parse format for scripts.
    Each line of output contains two status columns followed by the file path:
    First column = index status (changes staged for commit)
    Second column = working tree status (changes not staged)
    Status codes:
    A = Added
    M = Modified
    D = Deleted
    ?? = Untracked
    When --porcelain is not provided, the default human-readable output format is used.

- `-s`, `--short`
    Print the output in Git-compatible short format (two-letter status codes followed by the path), suitable for quick human scanning and tooling.
    The two status columns have the same meaning as in `--porcelain`:
    First column = index status (staged), Second column = working tree status (unstaged).
    Status codes include (non-exhaustive):
    A = Added, M = Modified, D = Deleted, R = Renamed, C = Copied, U = Unmerged/Conflict, ?? = Untracked.
    In short mode, branch headers and human-readable paragraphs are omitted.
