aria/contents/docs/libra/command/commit/index.mdx, before:

---
title: The [commit] Command
description: Record changes to the repository
---

### Usage

libra commit [OPTIONS] --message \<MESSAGE\>

### Description

Create a new commit containing the current contents of the index and the given log message describing the changes. The new commit is a direct child of HEAD, usually the current head of the current branch, or a single commit hash (detached HEAD).

The content to be committed can be specified only by `libra add` & `libra rm` commands. (The git support other ways to add content to the index, for example, `--all` option in `git commit`, which is not supported in libra yet.)

If the `--allow-empty` option is not given, the commit will be aborted if the index is empty.

### Options:

-   `-m`, `--message <MESSAGE>`
-   `--allow-empty`
    Allow commit with empty index.
-   `--amend`
    Change the last commit.
-   `--conventional`
    Check if the commit message is conventional format, if not, the commit will be aborted.
-   `-h`, `--help` Print help

<Note type="note" title="Note">
The commit message should align with Git’s behavior as closely as possible, excpet the `--conventional` option, which is not supported in Git. Refs https://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit for more information.

The `--conventional` option's format is based on the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification.

</Note>

Commit message:

feat(commit): add --signoff (-s) support to CommitArgs.Add information in index.
Signed-off-by: Haojun Xie <1678791451@qq.com>

aria/contents/docs/libra/command/commit/index.mdx, after:

---
title: The [commit] Command
description: Record changes to the repository
---

### Usage

libra commit [OPTIONS] --message \<MESSAGE\>

### Description

Create a new commit containing the current contents of the index and the given log message describing the changes. The new commit is a direct child of HEAD, usually the current head of the current branch, or a single commit hash (detached HEAD).

The content to be committed can be specified only by `libra add` & `libra rm` commands. (The git support other ways to add content to the index, for example, `--all` option in `git commit`, which is not supported in libra yet.)

If the `--allow-empty` option is not given, the commit will be aborted if the index is empty.

### Options:

-   `-m`, `--message <MESSAGE>`
-   `--allow-empty`
    Allow commit with empty index.
-   `--amend`
    Change the last commit.
-   `--conventional`
    Check if the commit message is conventional format, if not, the commit will be aborted.
-   `-h`, `--help` Print help
-   `-s`,`--signoff` Add sign-off-by trailer by the committer at the end of the commit message.

<Note type="note" title="Note">
The commit message should align with Git’s behavior as closely as possible, excpet the `--conventional` option, which is not supported in Git. Refs https://git-scm.com/docs/git-commit for more information.

The `--conventional` option's format is based on the [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) specification.

</Note>
